the raah border crossing is gaza's only
point of access by land that doesn't
pass through
Israel for the Palestinians it's a vital
economic and humanitarian Lifeline but
it's also a symbol of freedom and
sovereignty Israel has controlled it
directly or indirectly since
1967 even when it announced its forces
were leaving Gaza in 2005 the movement
of goods and people through the crossing
remained subject to Israeli approval
under international law controlling the
borders of a territory is considered an
occupation and Palestinians argue that
the occupation is the reason they're in
conflict with Israel earlier last month
the Israeli Army took direct military
control of the Rafa Crossing Israel says
it was a necessary part of its
preparations for a fullscale invasion of
the city of Rafa in a final bid to
defeat Hamas and other resistance groups
the move further complicated efforts to
bring desperately needed humanitarian
Aid into Gaza and allow people requiring
emergency medical care to be evacuated
outside the besieged strip wfp is
calling for all border crossings and
Crossing points within Gaza to be open
um as the Israeli incursion in Rafa
continues to have a devastating impact
on civilians and our own humanitarian
operations our friends at the world food
program warned that there is little the
agency can currently do in Rafa with
stocks very low and Mobility severely
restricted the UN the US and Egypt have
been pushing for the immediate reopening
of the Rafa and Karam Abu Salam
Crossings the latter at the Southeastern
tip of the Gaza Strip is mainly used by
trucks carrying humanitarian Aid it's
fully under Israeli control a key focus
of current ceasefire talks is deciding
the future status of the Raa Crossing
Egypt insists Palestinians should
control it Israel's adamant Hamas and
other resistance groups should never be
allowed to be in charge claiming they
could use it to smuggle in
weapons while efforts to start ceasefire
talks continue Palestinians say the
restoration of life in Gaza will be
impossible without the Israeli blockade
being lifted Muhammad Val Al
jazer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer